Added JAX interface documentation to readthedocs (#984)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/introduction/interfaces/jax.rst

.. _jax_interf:

JAX interface
=================

In order to use PennyLane in combination with JAX, we have to generate JAX-compatible

> quantum nodes. A basic ``QNode`` can be translated into a quantum node that interfaces with JAX by using the ``interface='jax'`` flag in the QNode Decorator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quantum nodes. A basic ``QNode`` can be translated into a quantum node that interfaces with JAX by using the ``interface='jax'`` flag in the QNode decorator.
```

.. note::
    
    Currently, only the ``default.qubit.jax`` device supports the JAX interface.

.. note::

    To use the JAX interface in PennyLane, you must first

>     install ``jax`` and ``jaxlib``. You can then import pennylane and jax as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    install ``jax`` and ``jaxlib``. You can then import PennyLane and JAX as follows:
```

        import jax.numpy as jnp

Construction via the decorator
------------------------------

The :ref:`QNode decorator <intro_vcirc_decorator>` is the recommended way for creating
a JAX-capable QNode in PennyLane. Simply specify the ``interface='jax'`` keyword argument:

.. code-block:: python
    
    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit1(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RY(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.PhaseShift(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0)), qml.expval(qml.Hadamard(1))

The QNode ``circuit1()`` is now a JAX-capable QNode, accepting ``jax.DeviceArray`` objects
as input, and returning ``jax.DeviceArray`` objects. It can now be used like any other JAX function:

>>> phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
>>> theta = jnp.array(0.2)
>>> circuit1(phi, theta)
DeviceArray([0.8776, 0.6880], dtype=float64)

Quantum gradients using JAX
---------------------------

Since a JAX-interfacing QNode acts like any other JAX interfacing python function,
the standard method used to calculate gradients with JAX can be used.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

>     dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)
```

Although I want to change this soon, so that `default.qubit` and `interface="jax"` works (since all the information needed is there to work out what the user wants)

    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit3(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RY(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.PhaseShift(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

    phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
    theta = jnp.array(0.2)
    grads = jax.grad(circuit3, argnums=(0, 1))
    phi_grad, theta_grad = grads(phi, theta)

> 

Reviewer: Minor suggestion, in case you want to show the gradient outputs

```suggestion

This has output:

>>> phi_grad
DeviceArray([-0.47942555,  0.        ], dtype=float32)
>>> theta_grad
DeviceArray(-3.4332792e-10, dtype=float32)
```

.. _jax_optimize:

> Using jax.jit on Qnodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using jax.jit on QNodes
```

-----------------------

> To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile your functions. If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the decorator on your Qnode directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile
your functions. If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the
decorator on your QNode directly.
```

.. code-block:: python

>     dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)
>     @jax.jit  # Qnode calls will now be jitted, and should run faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)
    
    @jax.jit  # QNode calls will now be jitted, and should run faster.
```

line break for easier parsing

    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit4(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RZ(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.RX(theta, wires=0)

>         return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

Reviewer: Nice, I ran this example, and it felt a lot faster!

Author: Yeet.

However, if you want to do random sampling instead, you'll need to pass a ``jax.random.PRNGKey`` to the device construction. Your jitted function will also need to include the device construction.

.. code-block:: python

    import jax
    import pennylane as qml

    @jax.jit

>     def sample_circuit(phi, theta, key)

Reviewer: Good idea to include this, it wasn't so intuitive to me.

.. _jax_interf:

JAX interface
=================

> In order to use PennyLane in combination with JAX, we have to generate JAX-compatible

Reviewer 2: Since 80% of our users may not come from ML and have only vaguely heard of JAX, would it be good to add a sentence of why they should use it? I.e., "Born out of the autograd package, JAX is optimised for speed and allows  XXXX"

Reviewer: Oh, and a link to the JAX docs as well!

Author: Added.

>>> phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
>>> theta = jnp.array(0.2)
>>> circuit1(phi, theta)
DeviceArray([0.8776, 0.6880], dtype=float64)

Quantum gradients using JAX
---------------------------

Since a JAX-interfacing QNode acts like any other JAX interfacing python function,
the standard method used to calculate gradients with JAX can be used.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit3(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RY(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.PhaseShift(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

    phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
    theta = jnp.array(0.2)
    grads = jax.grad(circuit3, argnums=(0, 1))
    phi_grad, theta_grad = grads(phi, theta)

This has output:

>>> phi_grad
DeviceArray([-0.47942555,  0.        ], dtype=float32)
>>> theta_grad
DeviceArray(-3.4332792e-10, dtype=float32)

.. _jax_optimize:

Using jax.jit on QNodes
-----------------------

To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile

> your functions. If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the

Reviewer 2: What about: probabilities, states, variances? Maybe it is useful to state the precise rule here, for example "if your circuit results are samples" or something...

Reviewer: Yep, I was actually wondering that (e.g., returning expvals/probs with a finite number of shots)

Author: So the rule is that it's only used when this method is invoked.

https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/b16cb4382b230afb574beae6556302a4e081ae3b/pennylane/devices/default_qubit_jax.py#L219

> To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile
> your functions. If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the

Reviewer 2: Will be nice to explain somewhere what jit means, for example:

```suggestion
To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile
your functions - a process called ``jitting''. If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the
```

decorator on your QNode directly.

.. code-block:: python

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)
    
    @jax.jit  # QNode calls will now be jitted, and should run faster.
    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit4(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RZ(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.RX(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

> However, if you want to do random sampling instead, you'll need to pass a ``jax.random.PRNGKey`` to the device construction. Your jitted function will also need to include the device construction.

Reviewer 2: Again, I would not know as a user how to decide whether I "do random sampling". Could one use more precise language without becoming opaque here?

Reviewer: I suppose random sampling occurs iff:

* `shots` is finite, and/or
* `qml.sample()` is being returned

Author: Added examples for clarification.

> However, if you want to do random sampling instead, you'll need to pass a ``jax.random.PRNGKey`` to the device construction. Your jitted function will also need to include the device construction.

Reviewer 2: Worth inserting a link to a page that explains what the key does?

Reviewer 2: I was confused about "include device construction". I think this needs to be reformulated entirely. Is what you want to say?

"If quantum nodes involve random sampling, jax requires a key called a ``PRNGKey'' to do XXX. The key can be passed to the device as a keyword argument: 

``qml.device(..., prng_key=key)`` 

However, now the jit decorator cannot be applied directly to the quantum function. This means that we have to wrap the qnode into another function which gets jitted with the decorator instead."

Also, this reads a bit like a hack - and maybe we should sell it as such and explain exactly why it requires such a detour with the wrapping function, and whether there are alternatives...

Author: > Also, this reads a bit like a hack

That's because it is a bit of a hack lol. But I think given how JAX's randomness is handled, it's likely the best we can do.

Author: Added some more context. let me know what you think!

.. code-block:: python

    import jax
    import pennylane as qml

    @jax.jit
    def sample_circuit(phi, theta, key)
        
        # Device construction should happen inside a `jax.jit` function
        # when using a PRNGKey.
        dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2, prng_key=key)
        @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
        def circuit(phi, theta):
            qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
            qml.RZ(phi[1], wires=1)
            qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
            qml.RX(theta, wires=0)
            return qml.samples() # Here, we take samples instead.

        return circuit(phi, theta, key)

    # Get the samples from the jitted method.
    samples = sample_circuit([0.0, 1.0], 0.0, jax.random.PRNGKey(0))

.. note::
    

>     If you don't pass a PRNGKey when sampling with a ``jax.jit``, every call to the sample function will return the same result. 

Reviewer 2: That's important to know!

.. _jax_interf:

JAX interface
=================

> Born out of the autograd package, `JAX <https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ is the next generation of differentiable functional computation, 

Reviewer 2: Lol, is that a politically controversial statement? :)

Author: Maybe "next iteration" instead of generation?

adding support for powerful hardware accelerators like GPUs and TPUs via `XLA <https://www.tensorflow.org/xla>`_. In order to use PennyLane in combination with JAX, we have to generate JAX-compatible
quantum nodes. A basic ``QNode`` can be translated into a quantum node that interfaces with JAX by using the ``interface='jax'`` flag in the QNode decorator.

.. note::
    

>     Currently, only the ``default.qubit.jax`` device supports the JAX interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Currently, only the ``default.qubit.jax`` device supports the JAX interface,
    and only with `diff_method="backprop"`.
```

Reviewer 2: Or maybe:
```suggestion
    Currently, only the ``default.qubit.jax`` device supports the JAX interface, 
    and only if `diff_method="backprop"` is used.
```

>>> phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
>>> theta = jnp.array(0.2)
>>> circuit1(phi, theta)
DeviceArray([0.8776, 0.6880], dtype=float64)

Quantum gradients using JAX
---------------------------

Since a JAX-interfacing QNode acts like any other JAX interfacing python function,
the standard method used to calculate gradients with JAX can be used.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit3(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RY(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.PhaseShift(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

    phi = jnp.array([0.5, 0.1])
    theta = jnp.array(0.2)
    grads = jax.grad(circuit3, argnums=(0, 1))
    phi_grad, theta_grad = grads(phi, theta)

This has output:

>>> phi_grad
DeviceArray([-0.47942555,  0.        ], dtype=float32)
>>> theta_grad
DeviceArray(-3.4332792e-10, dtype=float32)

.. _jax_optimize:

Using jax.jit on QNodes
-----------------------

To fully utilize the power and speed of JAX, you'll need to just-in-time compile

> your functions - a process called ``jitting``. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your functions - a process called "jitting". 
```

> If you're only taking expectation values, you can simply add the decorator on your QNode directly.

Reviewer 2: Maybe one can say: In most situations, you can simply add the decorator? And then the below text states the exception?

.. code-block:: python

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit.jax', wires=2)
    
    @jax.jit  # QNode calls will now be jitted, and should run faster.
    @qml.qnode(dev, interface='jax')
    def circuit4(phi, theta):
        qml.RX(phi[0], wires=0)
        qml.RZ(phi[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.RX(theta, wires=0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

Randomness: Shots and Samples
-----------------------------
In JAX, there is no such thing as statefull randomness, meaning all random number generators must be explicitly seeded. 
(See the `JAX random package documentation <https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/jax.random.html?highlight=random#module-jax.random>`_ for more details).

> While a real quantum computer's randomness can not be seeded, we are forced to when using a JAX simulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To emulate a real quantum computer's randomness, we are forced to use randomness - and hence seeds - when using a JAX simulator.
```

> If you want to simulate randomness (meaning you either have a finite ``shots`` value, or the qnode returns ``qml.samples()``), JAX requires you to use a ``jax.random.PRNGKey``. On a normal method, we handle this automatically for you. However, if you wish to decorate your qnode with a ``jax.jit``, you must contruct your device inside of the ``jax.jit`` decorated method.

Reviewer 2: This is really hard to state. What do you think about this?
```suggestion
When simulations include randomness (i.e., if the device has a finite ``shots`` value, or the qnode returns ``qml.samples()``), JAX requires a ``jax.random.PRNGKey``. Usually, PennyLane automatically handles this for you. However, if you wish to use jitting, not only the qnode, but also the device needs to be created in the context of the ``@jax.jit`` decorator. This can be achieved by wrapping device and qnode creation into a function:

is constructed inside a function that carries .
```
